In this lesson we're going to start building our simple markdown
editor. We will be composing bootstrap component such
as tabs and cards to produce interface that similar with
this GitHub markdown editor. OK
firstly let's navigate to our terminal
then create new branch git checkout
-b lesson 44
here I have started up my server in this first
terminal. So here in this second terminal I'll run
web pack to watch my asset changes
and compile them to public directory.
All right now let's switch over to our browser
then navigate to get bootstrap dot
com
then navigate to documentation
find components
and then card
on the right side
let's hit the navigation link here how the company
look like and below that is the markup.
So let's copy these.
Now let's switch back over to our editor
inside this components folder
let's create a new file.
You can call it whatever you like but here I'll call it m editor
dot vue with M and E in capital
in this file
let's add template tag
and paste the markup from the clipboard.
Let's make a little adjustment. Here
we don't need our content to be center.
So let's remove this text center class
Let's change the text of the first nav link to write
then change the text of the second nav link to preview.
Here we only need two tabs so
let's remove this one
then here in card body let's remove everything
and then let's add a slot. So a slot is a vue js special
tag which kind of placeholder where we will replace
it with something else that we pass in from the parent component.
In this case we'll replace this slot with text area where
we can write our question or answer. The reason
why we don't put the text area here is because this
will be a child component of question or answer
component.
And when we write something in here we need to send
the data up to the parent so that we can then send it to
the server.
And as you may already know to do this stuff we
need to emit an event from the child to the parent
and it's a bit tricky.
So in my opinion for this case it's much easier
to use slot instead of put the text area directly.
Okay next
let's also add another div to preview our markdown
for now it's only study content like this.
Next let's open the question dot vue file.
Here in the script
let's import the M Editor component
then include it in components property
and then let's jump to our template.
And here let's wrap the text area within
the M Editor component like so
this component basically will take the markdown
that we write and parse it into HTML.
So here we need to pass the body from this question component
down to child component or m editor component
in this case.
So let's bind the body property here.
Alright now
let's go back to M Editor component
let's add
script tag
and here
let's define props and add the body in array
OK
let's save all changes
and now let's have a look.
As you can see here our new component shows up.
The next thing that we need to do is make these tabs functional.
To do that
let's go back to bootstrap official guide
go to navs component
then in the right side
let's hit the tabs link and to custom the bootstrap
nav tabs behaviour let's navigate to this link
javascript  behavior
and if we scroll down a little bit
we can see the tabs along with the markup so here
we'll need to add data toggle equals tab and href
which points to id of certain element. Then a tab
content as the tab content wrapper. Inside it we need
to define tab pane to represent a single tab content
and we also need to add id attribute which
should we match with the href's
value of the nav link.
So let's go back to our editor
jump to our template
and here
let's add another class to this div tab content.
Then let's wrap this slot with another div.
It should be has tab pane class to represent the single content.
And we also need to add active class
to make this content as current tab pane.
Then let's also give it id
and this also should be write.
Then let's also add a class to this div tab pane
and give it id
preview. And this should also preview
last but not least let's
select both nav links
and then add another attribute data toggle
equals tab. Let's save and see the change
reload the page.
Hit the edit button.
Now if we hit the preview tab we'll see the preview text appears.
Great.
Now
one last thing that we need to fix is this active tab
because as you can see it contains two colors
a bit gray on top
it's similar with body background color and white
on the bottom. Let's make it in white color instead.
Let's switch back over to our editor
then open sass underscore variables dot scss.
In this file we'll find body bg which is a default
bootstrap variable that store
body background color. But this variable will also
affect another component such as nav active tab.
So for example if I change the color to red
and then save.
If I reload the page
you'll see the background color of the
body and nav active tab are all red.
So if you navigate to node modules
find
bootstrap
go to scss then open
underscore variables dot scss
and then find the body bg instances
here you'll see the nav tabs link active
bg is the depend on the body bg
that's way changing the color in
body bg will affect this component.
All right let's go back to underscore variables
dot scss  inside assets scss folder. And
here
let's change the body bg to color white
and then move this color white variable
before body bg
and if we want to make the body background color
to light gray like before then you can go to app dot
scss and then define new css rule like this.
All right
let's save all changes.
Now the background of nav active tab is white
while body backgroun color is light gray.
Okay great. In the next video we're going to make
this markdown preview functional. So here
let's commit our changes to our git repo.